Okay, so we decided to make it a little larger.
That's just the way things go.
They say an eco-friendly house can't be build
in 150 days for $150,000, and I say it can.
I'm Allen Smith, join me as I push the limits
with time, budget and creativity with the
Garden Home Challenge, exclusively on eHow
Home.
What a glorious day, just the kind of day
that you'd want to spend out on a big porch
like this.
Well, the porch has gotten larger.
It was only 8 feet from the house to this
point.
And this finish floor material, I pull back,
you can see, we added another 4 feet onto
the deck to give it, well, just more room.
And the reason this porch feels so much smaller
than the front porch, because they're essentially
the same size, the front porch is a little
longer.
The chimeny actually interrupts this space
quite a bit and makes it feel much smaller.
So the plan here is to come out to this point
here with some posts, we'll have a covered
porch.
And from here on out it'll be uncovered, but
there'll be a rail there.
Now take a look at the floor joists.
Tony has put these together with 2 by 12 material,
so it's really solid.
And it's supported by our concrete block pillars.
So the finished floor material is this, it's
really a 1 inch thick board that has a rounded
edge on either side, here and here.
And it's 6 inches wide.
These boards are 16 feet long.
So you combine that length, and these will
be placed side by side.
There's still quite a bit of moisture in these,
so he's gonna pack them in really close together,
one against the other.
And as they drive, you'll get about a quarter
inch gap between these.
But if you put a gap between them staring
out, and then they shrunk, you're gonna have
a much wider gap.
So what's really good about this material
is it'll last a long time.
There's a 40 year warranty on this treated
wood.
And, you know, it's gonna age really beautifully.
We don't have to put any protectant on it
or finish.
I could paint if I want, but the idea here
is just for it to become sun bleached to a
kind of gray color, so it'll blend in to the
surroundings, the woods and so forth.
It's really amazing what 4 feet has added
to this space.
I'm glad I made this decision to make this
a little more spacious.
If you're enjoying following what we're doing
here at the house, make sure you subscribe
to eHow Home.